Movie: MoneyBall 


Moneyball is a movie which is based on the game baseball. The movie shows the story of the coach that brings an underperforming team to peak. 
The movie is the true story of Oakland athletics general manager Billy Bean. He takes the help of economist Peter in selecting the players.Peter analyzes different baseball players data using data analytics.


The movie is the true story of Oakland athletics general manager Billy Bean.He was very upset because his baseball team New York Yankees lost the 2001 American Series. He decided to talk about this to the authorities but they say we will win in the next series but Billy Bean counters and says we will lose in the next series too because for building a team we need a budget that we don’t have. After this Billy went to the sports authority to tell all about this. On this the sports authority says that we are just a very small person in this market and you are the general manager of this small market. We cannot afford that much money on this. Billy tries to make them understand that we are here so that we can make champions, win league and if it is not possible then why authority hire us. After saying all this Billy leaves from there and goes to a sports community meeting where officials are talking about plates to replace and build a new team. All are given their opinion and Billy quietly listens to all this conversation. Billy in the mind says that they are now aware of what the problem is. After this all asks Billy to give his opinion Billy says all are saying something but anyone knows what the problem is. After listening to this one person says the problem is we need a good team. After this he shows the previous data of the team and the negative side of the team. Billy smiles and says Problem is not this, the problem is that we don't have that much budget to create a good team. To create a good team we should have a good budget. In comparison to other teams we have 50% less budget. So first to compete we should work on this. Billy wanted to build a good team anyhow so he went for a county visit to Cleveland England. There at their reception he was waiting to remember his old memories of training days. Those days are the starting days of his game when everyone appreciates him .Meanwhile the receptionist called him and he went inside. Inside he was asked what he wanted  Billy says  he wanted more money on Payroll  so that he got help in building a good team and along this also discussed some players. In this he asks Gayami, a player for his team. They agree to give that player but one person peter band whispers into the ear  then they refuse to give that player. After meeting Billy goes to the desk of Peter Brad and asks him what he says that he refuses to give that player. Peter says he likes tht player personally so I say not to give that player. My work is to keep details of the players. I am a Player analyst. Billy calls him outside to talk. Billy talks about team building to Peter. Then Peter gives his view that here clubs buy players with heavy budgets but in reality they should buy those players who help to win. He also gives a few examples and says that players with the same talent can buy in less budget. He also says that the player name Demon you are removing from your team is the correct decision. By doing this your team has a possibility but when i say this to others they think i am a fool . Billy asks Peter about his education. Peter says I have done graduation in economics. Billy goes from there and he felt very weird about baseball and economics has no relation but from inside he was convinced by peters so he calls peter and asks him have you read about me i was also the player of baseball. Do  you send me to the first round? Peter sya syes you are a good player but Billy asks Peter to tell the truth then Peter says not in the first round but in the ninth round. Also in place of money I will give you ownership. Billy likes the answer of Peter and Peter says I have buyed You from kleveland now you are my assistant general. Next day Peter went to Billy and talked about team building using their computer figures . 
Now the story comes to the climax where only Billy is with Peter and no one else. Billy's experience and Peter's figures that are not practically possible by Billy and Peter have faith in each other. They both agree with their decisions and views. Peter talked about those players that are very old and underrated . they have not got the chance to prove them. He lists those players and Peter says most of the players are judged on the basis of their appearance and not on the basis of performance and talent. In this list 25 people are underrated and affordable. He talked about a one player brand for which a relay pitcher relay pitcher is the one who comes into the game after a poor performance of any player. He is an undervalued player. The only problem is only with the action of throwing a ball. He also looks very weird but he is a very good pitcher. Billy takes Peter to the community meeting where everyone asks who he is and what he is here. Billy tells everyone he is a player analyst and he hires him to build a team. Billy suggests some names from his list but everyone does not agree with those names and says the player you are suggesting does not fit with the body. They will not perform well on the field. Billy says we should think of our budget and on that basis he decided  to select those 3 players . They are eligible and we can afford them with our budget.  Out of the 3 players one is Jeremy. We have to give only 2.85md. 2nd is bradford and 3rd one is david justice. After listening to David justice name everyone says his legs are very weak he is not of any use for us. Nobody wants Billy to add these players.but this the the first strategy and peoples are against billy  the billy says to peter to say something. On the other hand, the movie also shows that Billy is in a broken relationship and his wife got divorced from him. Billy has one daughter who lives with his wife.  When Billy goes to meet his daughter his wife says she was outside. Billy decides to wait and his wife shows regret towards his loss of his team and Billy doesn't give any reaction to his wife on this. Then he goes outside with his wife where his daughter asks that if your team loses in the upcoming league  then will you lose yours too. After listening to this, Billy felt very weird that his small daughter is going from stress . Then Billy asks who told you about all this she says i watched over the internet . Billie felt not good about what everyone knows about his struggle . Billy gives suggestions not to use the phone and internet. Not all news is true over there he says you don't take stress for this everything will be fine . In this scene Billy is shown as a father where at one he is fighting with his game and on the other side he is very much concerned about his daughter. He is trying to do everything right on both sides. He was going from a very tough situation where everything was against him  and he did not want to give stress to anyone . He gave time to his daughter. His daughter likes singing, that's why he buys a guitar for his daughter. After that both of them go to a restaurant where Billy's daughter sings a song. After listening to the song Billy felt very surprised that he dont know his daughter sings very well.
When Billy and petr make a list of underrated players after going to a history games event. After this Billy and Peter went to those players' houses and told them that they have to play for the Auckland team. After seeing this senior member calls Billy and says that like what you are doing will make the whole team wrong and will never win. Billy replies you are not a future teller. I was also the baseball player  and also trained the player so I can tell who has how much calibre . now the day comes when the games starts 
 When games start Billy goes out of the field because Billy does not want to watch any of his games he thinks that seeing the game will be bad luck for the team. Peter is angry at this but says nothing .Billy's team lost several games one by one and everyone questioned Billy's new strategy. Everyone says Billy's strategy is wrong. Games can not be won with the figures. But after two months Billy's team started winning. Team won 19 games in a row. In the history of American baseball only two teams won 19 games in a row. This is the record and if the billys team wins 20 matches then this will be in the history of baseball. Billy's team wins 20th match and this ths the record breaking 103years. Nobody believes that this team will win and break all the records. Billy is not satisfied with this win because Billy wants to win the world series. After this win the owner of one team called Billy whose name is John w Henry wants Billy to be the general manager of the Boston team but Billy refuses this offer because Billy has no value of money and doesn't want to leave his team . In 2004 red sox team won the world series with the strategy of billy and peter.billy and peter changed the whole criteria and selection of the teams .






Billy Bean in the movie says that there are rich teams and there are poor teams and Billy has not that much of budget to buy famous players so he decided to buy players with the skills not on the basis of glamour.


From this movie what I learned is that skills are more important and with those skills we can get everything whatever we want to achieve in our life when these skills are used in the correct direction.